hi my name's Tom Mason and welcome to
another life of the world video blog for
wax photographic in today's episode
we're going to be looking at how to
construct a DIY protective case for your
camera when using as a remote so for
example here is my remote camera box
it's quite a sturdy construction out of
a Pelican case with a mini tripod on the
bottom and these are perfect for
positioning for those wide-angle images
of wildlife be it in your garden or out
further afield so the idea behind the
remote box is to give you a camera a
little more protection when it's outside
in the field they this one here
constructed of a pelican case is a
little more of an expensive version the
reason behind that is I leave it out for
quite a long time and that means I want
it to be as waterproof as possible but
before I kind of had the funds to build
one of these even though it still looks
a little bit rough I made a very similar
thing out of quite simply something like
this a Tupperware box now all you have
to do really is cut a hole in the front
to position your camera in it and that
means that you're gonna take the worst
of the elements away to help your camera
stay dry and when you're using it
outside here's something we've done
earlier and all we're gonna do is take
that off you want one with a removable
lid because this is going to form the
base of where you're going to push your
camera on and what you do is take that
top off and we're going to need to cut a
flap on the front like here you can see
we've already pre soared down the sides
with a hacksaw
and then what we're going to do is
merely cut off the top and use that as a
hood now before we get on to doing that
a bit I'm just going to explain about
the bottom and why you want it to be a
removable one is that you want to drill
a hole on the bottom here and that's
going to be called the tripod brush of
your camera so that's going to find a
place and settle on there to hold it in
position when you clip on the top now
I've got to also cut away a section of
this side to make sure that my camera
holds flat
the reason you want the tripod brush is
simply it allows you to position the
camera a lot easier you can use it on a
tripod or a tree mail and this means
that it makes it much more versatile so
we're going to go ahead and do this for
you and then show you when we're done
so as we talked about we've cut out the
front like this and we've used that
section to make a makeshift hood on top
just to protect the camera from any kind
of water falling directly down onto the
lens just to make sure that we don't get
any splatters that could mist up or ruin
our image it's important to remember
that although these boxes you know the
actual plastic sections are waterproof
if you do leave them out for long enough
you will get some moisture coming inside
the reason these are really great for
use over something like a standard
waterproof cover that's made of plastic
than the ones that's a plastic bag is
that these don't flap around as much in
the wind they don't move as much meaning
they're less likely to scare your
subject you can also put the box out in
advance where you're going to work with
it getting your subjects used to it
before introducing the camera at a later
date of course they just settled on
nicely above your camera giving it good
protection now the way that I'd be
triggering this is either through the
use of a camera trap set up something
like a remote sense of triggers or a
pocket wizard or radio remote just to do
it myself from a further distance so I
can watch what's happening in front of
the camera and trigger it when I think
my subjects in the right place this is
really handy for those subjects that are
a bit more worried that you don't but
you still want to get a wide-angle image
when working with a box camera like this
there are a few accessories that can be
really handy and to make them more
versatile the small tripods as shown
here
clamp mounts for working in trees or
just a small bit of scrim net by helping
blending them into the environment so
that's it for this video and why not
have a go yourself at making your own
remote camera box and join us again soon
for another life of the wild video blog